Add post:  Rejection email previews (#853)
DFE-Digital/bat-design-history: app/posts/manage-teacher-training-applications/2023-03-15-rejection-email-previews.md

---

![Illustration with the heading ‘The candidate will be sent this email’ followed by a box containing lines to indicate email content, followed by a green button](email-preview.png)

We’ve added a preview of the email that will be sent to candidates when a provider rejects their application. We did this to give providers greater awareness of how their reasons for rejecting a candidate will be used, and in order to encourage them to write better feedback.

This change was added in production on 13 March 2023.

## The issue

A review of the reasons for rejection sent to candidates has shown us that sometimes these were not of high quality.

Since we [started asking candidates if the feedback was helpful](/apply-for-teacher-training/asking-candidates-if-rejection-feedback-is-helpful/) in November 2022, 46% of the responses to the survey have said that the feedback was not helpful.

Issues we’ve spotted with feedback have included:

* candidates being written about in the third person and referred to by their name or as ‘the applicant’
* very short reasons not written as full sentences
* use of ‘N/A’ or ‘see email’

## What we changed

> Previously, after selecting and writing the reasons for rejection, the confirmation page showed their answers using a ‘check your answers’ style summary list, with ‘change’ links:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously, after their training provider selected and wrote their reasons for rejection, the confirmation page showed their answers using a ‘check your answers’ style summary list, with ‘change’ links:
```

Reviewer: just tweaked to explain who 'their' is in this sentence.
